Mateo/dev 42 revamp calling tools in your custom apps quickstart (#591)
ArcadeAI/docs: app/en/home/quickstart/page.mdx

---

> title: "Calling tools in your custom apps"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Calling tools in your agent"
```

- An <SignupLink linkLocation="docs:call-tools-directly">Arcade account</SignupLink>
- An [Arcade API key](/home/api-keys)
- The [`uv` package manager](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) if you are using Python
- The [`npm` package manager](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) if you are using JavaScript or TypeScript

</GuideOverview.Prerequisites>

<GuideOverview.YouWillLearn>

- Install the Arcade client
- Build a simple workflow that uses tools to:
  - search for news with Google News

>   - Creates a Google Doc with the news

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Create a Google Doc with the news
```

>   - Sends a link to the Google Doc to a Slack User

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Send ourselves an email with a link to the Google Doc
```

Create a new script called `example.py`:

> ```python filename="example.py"

Reviewer: Can we add the import of Arcade to the top of the "setup the client" code snippet? 

from arcadepy import Arcade

  if (authResponse.status !== "completed") {
    console.log(
      `Click this link to authorize ${tool_name}: \`${authResponse.url}\`. The process will continue once you have authorized the app.`
    );
    // Wait for the user to authorize the app
    await client.auth.waitForCompletion(authResponse.id);
  }

  // Run the tool
  const response = await client.tools.execute({
    tool_name: tool_name,
    input: input,
    user_id: user_id,
  });
  return response;
}
```

</Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

### Implement the workflow

In this example workflow, we:

- Get the latest news about MCP URL mode elicitation
- Create a Google Doc with the news
- Send a link to the Google Doc to the user

<Tabs items={["Python", "JavaScript"]} storageKey="preferredLanguage">

<Tabs.Tab>

```python filename="example.py"
# This tool does not require authorization, so it will return the results
# without prompting the user to authorize the tool call.
response_search = authorize_and_run_tool(
    tool_name="GoogleNews.SearchNewsStories",
    input={
        "keywords": "MCP URL mode elicitation",
    },
    user_id=user_id,
)

# Get the news results from the response

> news = response_search.output.value["news_results"]

Reviewer: I get None outputs in the News Results. Can we remove those:
latest news about MCP URL mode elicitation:

> Visual Studio Magazine - VS Code 1.107 (November 2025 Update) Expands Multi-Agent Orchestration, Model Management
> None
> SD Times - Several new updates make their way into the MCP specification
> None
> AI News - How the MCP spec update boosts security as infrastructure scales
> None

  <Tabs.Tab>

    ```bash

>     uv run example.py

Reviewer: I wasn't able to finish executing the example code, because the terminal didn't update after I completed the OAuth flow. I'm not sure why? 
<img width="568" height="154" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-10 at 1 56 00 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/63e6fa72-0225-4163-80ed-83c7329b663f" />

>     > The square root of 625 is 25

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Next Steps

> In this simple example, we call the tool methods directly. In your real applications and agents, you'll likely be letting the LLM decide which tools to call - learn more about using Arcade with Frameworks in the [Frameworks](/home/langchain/use-arcade-tools) section, or [how to build your own tools](/home/build-tools/create-a-mcp-server).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this simple example, we call the tool methods directly. In your real applications and agents, you'll likely be letting the LLM decide which tools to call. Learn more about using Arcade with Frameworks in the [Frameworks](/home/langchain/use-arcade-tools) section, or [how to build your own tools](/home/build-tools/create-a-mcp-server).
```
